how did it get this bad because it sits
in a corner it's pretty dusty in here
look have you have you seen have you
looked up in here yet I'm scared right
put your put your head in there oh my
gosh get a gaming PC fast and easy with
BLD by NZXT click the performance and
budget that works best for you and have
a meticulously crafted rig shipped to
your doorstep with a 48 hour turnaround
BLD offers the latest hardware fair
pricing and a two year all-in-one
warranty so click the link below to
start customizing your next gaming rig
today alright so this is the wifey build
that I assembled for wifey sauce three
years ago it's been three years and
since I built it for it has not been
cleaned once her fault
that being said she was the one who who
suggested the idea for this video so
somewhat okay yeah it only took you
three years not bad in case you guys are
wondering we've got an Intel Core i7
we also have a gtx 970 from EVGA it's a
super super clock and this is inside of
an end to evolve ITX case so mini ITX
build here it's actually been a pretty
decent systems as long as you've been
using it really note no issues have stem
so far I did do some thermal testing on
the system before we started shooting
this video we're getting about a T to
see on the on the package temp for our
CPU and 79 C on the GPU it's actually
not too bad I was expecting a little bit
warmer but I'm also curious to see how
much those temperatures dropped if any
by the end of this video with this all
spanked and spanked and new and stuff so
don't don't let's let's first crack this
open actually let's show him the let's
show them the front panel first maybe we
should show them the front panel it's
pretty bad
I mean you had no idea just how bad it
was until I show you this part you can
just see the dust pluming off just hold
your breath because
Oh shoes oh my god no way
I can't breathe I really can't breathe
that's fun hold on here let's let me put
this aside so we can both look at it
same angle gosh dude
three years and it hasn't moved it's
been in the same spot on a filing
cabinet sort of wedged into the corner
of our office at home we also have the
cat box the litter box is also in our
office even literally pee little maybe
that has something to do with it oh my
like how is there a guard there's even
like a ring where the fan is well yeah
exactly and how is how is any air
penetrating this thing I said
penetrating the fan is actually it's
super dusty don't get me wrong but it
doesn't look nearly as bad as the dust
filter which means the dust filter is
doing its job the only ones not doing
their job is us by not cleaning it
regularly that is just no don't hold
that over my no that's not that's not
how that works
no let's crack open the side panel I
can't imagine it being any worse than
this though I have a feeling that's got
to be the worst part because that's
where all the dust catching is there is
a power supply desk filter this isn't as
bad but it's still still not ideal it's
still kind of clumpy you're you're poor
see sonic power supply even the duck
look at the dust on the side panel look
at the other side this is disgusting
it's just a box you you are an animal
did you see the cables right yeah
there's there's hair yeah an organic
growth on your cable so it's actually
just dust dust bunnies at the power
supply shroud you could easily write
your name in there the motherboard in
RAM this whole area doesn't look too bad
you're a I Oh
oh my gosh I can't wait to actually see
the the radiator I'm sure there's a
bunch of dust caked on to that fin stack
so yeah we've got we've got some work to
do here your poor system honey
should take better care of it my
goodness all right well that's what
we're doing today and there's like what
is this what what are these dare I ask
what these stains are this is coffee on
the back here oh it's disgusting I was
working out my best one day it spills on
my desk oh my god everything but
apparently she always loses blood what
is that
so I think at this point we should
probably take it somewhere that's not
here let's take it either outside or in
the kitchen or something and give it an
initial dusting before we bring it back
in and start taking it apart and
cleaning the individual components yeah
sound good
[Music]
[Applause]
well hallelujah
look at that it's it's it's not perfect
but it's a whole lot cleaner just with a
you know a minute a minute or two with
this data vac this thing's amazing I'll
drop a link for it in the description
below I think every techie should have
one look at look at this look at the
dust filter I can actually I can see
through it now there's still kind of a
small dust ring around the area yeah
it's not perfect so we still need to
think we still need to finish it off
with some some cleaning wipes but that's
what we should probably do right now
finish off what the datavac couldn't get
which is just the finer nooks and
crannies of the system I would probably
have to pull some components out I don't
think we're gonna go all the way crazy
and actually remove the motherboard
pretty much everything around the
motherboard for the most part I can get
extracted temporarily
and given a good wipe down before we put
it all back together and then rerun
those temperature tests there should be
kind of fun so ready let's do it
[Music]
all right
we finished brand-new it looks brand-new
I know
holy moly we did it we did quite the
number on your system honey and I did
test thermals again not much change to
be honest we went up a degree with our
cpu temps and down three degrees on the
GPU bear in mind though that ambient was
2 degrees higher than it was this
morning when I tested because now the
Sun is on the west side of the building
which is the side we're facing so it
does get a little bit warmer in the
afternoon evening so bearing that in
mind we maybe did see sort of a decrease
in thermals at least on the GPU side I
think most of the dust buildup was was
in very specific areas obviously you
guys saw that ridiculous front panel it
was just completely blocked off from any
airflow this is already a pretty air
constrictive case especially at the
front panel and that dust filter was
just making things a whole lot worse
so also lots of dust buildup in the
radiator actually underneath the fans
which is sneaky because you can't really
see that dust buildup because the fans
are in the way but that's also impeding
a lot of the airflow that these fans are
able to sort of permeate those fin
stacks with so make sure that you clean
that out as well there was a lot of dust
buildup in the GPU of course especially
in the case like this where the shroud
is so close to the power supply basement
things can get pretty hairy down there
so you want to make sure to keep tabs on
that as well I also just thought of this
is that we have like this 200 millimeter
fan up front but then we have two 120 s
and a 140 at the back so we're actually
rocking a bit of negative pressure
inside this case which is known to
accumulate dust a lot faster than
positive air pressure so that's also
something to bear in mind and do you
think that also having it like on my
desk as a post on the floor helped at
all yeah absolutely there's I mean when
you're talking about the floor the
ground area where your feet are there
and you know animals like pets obviously
we have cats there's debris dander and
stuff is gonna get sucked right into
your system a lot easier if if it's eye
level with all that junk so keeping it
elevated is definitely important if
you're trying to keep it as clean as
possible for as long as possible
but I think at the end of the day using
good practice and cleaning your system
regularly is really
the best key to to keeping a tidy system
but yeah that's pretty much it guys
thank you so much for tuning in thanks
wifey sauce for being here thank you and
guys get subscribed to the channel for
more tech stuff coming at you really
soon toss a like on this video if you
enjoyed it and we'll see you guys in the
next one